[triumphant music]
[mystical music]
[magical music]
[wind whistling]
[harmonica music]
[man]
A long, long time ago,
a great catastrophe
befell heaven and earth.
Life hung in the balance
as the world filled with
violence and destruction.
The forces of Shang and Zhou
fought for supremacy.
Humans and gods united to
get through the catastrophe.
And from it came
the Order of the Gods.
Each god returned
their rightful place,
their homes carved in stone.
And thus, the world
returned to peace.
[music continues]
[engine hissing]
[man grunting]
[music continues]
[steam hisses]
[low rumbling]
[ship rumbling]
[music continues]
Hey boss, if we
don't find another job,
we'll be stuck aground!
That's the last
of the Cosmic Gas!
[gentle music]
We need the work.
How long since the last gig?
Can't get gas with
no money left.
[dog barking]
Isn't it sad?
Immortals and demons used
to dance in the clouds.
Since then, we've fallen so low.
Even the birds mock us.
Flying boats is all we've got
since that damn catastrophe.
How long ago was that?
You remember exactly?
-Long ago.
-[man] Too true.
Do I even remember how to fly?
Just thinking about it
feels like a fantasy, huh?
[bell ringing]
[dog barking]
Hey!
Well would you look at that!
Oh! A request from Penglai!
Home of the gods, Penglai?
It's our lucky day!
Ha! We'll get there before
any other bounty hunter can.
Come on, only 20,000?
A guy this ruthless
should be twice as much.
Do the gods have no money?
If we don't find work,
we won't eat either.
May as well go
try our luck, then.
[whimpers]
[ship rumbling]
[smooth music]
[thuds]
[music continues]
[woman over PA]
The morning cycle had ended.
The Zhuque Gate
is now open
for travelers to pass through.
You are entering Penglai.
We welcome gods and spirits.
May you be blessed with
security and prosperity
so long as you
comply by the rules.
[music continues]
[indistinct chattering]
[steam hissing]
[footsteps thudding]
[harmonica playing]
You want the elixir of life?
Show me the cash,
or move it along.
The goods are counterfeit.
Then walk away.
One immortal, one demon.
You make quite the pair.
You do what you can
when times are tough.
Better a dog than a washed
up god, don't you think?
Maybe.
My dog's got it pretty easy.
See that?
I even smell like her.
You're my bounty.
[scoffs] You kidding me?
I thought you were
a sheriff or something.
Turns out you're nothing
but a little bounty hunter.
[grunting]
[crashing]
[inhaling deeply]
[intense music]
[ax thuds]
[loud thump]
[groaning]
Talk about a hard head.
[upbeat music]
Hey, why are you running?
I just want the bounty.
Careful! Wait!
[items clattering]
[music continues]
[vehicle revs]
[water splashing]
[boy gasps]
[bridge cracks]
[music continues]
[yelps]
[wood crashing]
Hey! Watch it!
[horns honking]
[orbs bubbling]
[explosions]
[music continues]
[people shouting]
[boy grunting]
[birds squawking]
[meter beeping]
[engine booms]
Ah!
[ship rattling]
[ship sputtering]
Out of gas.
That's just perfect.
See ya around! Ha!
[net whooshes]
[groans]
You've got to be kidding me.
[loud thud]
Good timing.
It wasn't timing.
It was her nose.
She found you pretty
quickly using your scent.
[Xiaotian grunting]
You're back! [laughs]
[Xiaotian shouting]
[both grunting]
-That's enough.
-What is that?
What an embarrassment.
[Xiaotian growls]
Say what?
Are you jealous or something?
-Help me!
-You want your money, right?
Let me go and I'll pay
you five times the reward.
100 grand! [grunts]
Do you expect
us to believe you?
-Seriously?
-It's true. Really.
It's buried by the bridge.
I'll show you where it's.
Hey, that's a pretty good deal.
Well then, heads or tails?
What do you mean by that?
Why don't we let
the cosmos decide?
Do I set you free or not?
Sound good?
Mm-hm, mm-hm.
[upbeat music]
[whimpering]
[man] 20 strings.
[men grunting]
Hey, boss, when you did
the heads or tails thing,
was it heads up you let him go
or heads down you let him go?
You didn't really say.
[creature growling]
[smooth music]
[yelps]
[Xiaotian panting, yelping]
Enough. Enough.
Money!
Visitor.
Must be a new customer.
Oh yeah!
And she's really cute!
[laughing] Pretty! Pretty!
Wonder what she's here for.
Are you Erlang?
It's Mu. Mu Erlang.
That's me.
There's someone I seek.
Hey, my men and
I are bounty hunters.
We catch people.
We don't find them.
[exhales sharply] I need you
to catch someone then.
Hmm?
Now that's something I can do.
He stole something from me.
It was my sister's.
And what was it?
No. I shouldn't say.
[scoffs] All right.
That's fine by me.
Less for me to worry about.
Don't share. Keep your secrets.
Thirsty?
My sister and I,
we were very close.
But during the upheaval
12 years ago, she disappeared.
The item that he stole is
all that's left of her.
Will you help me?
I can help.
There's a fee though.
This is my offer. Take it.
[Xiaotian grunting]
[Wanluo coughing]
All right.
I'll tell you.
It's called the Lamp of Wishes.
It has the ability to
contain things that otherwise
cannot be bound.
A rare power.
I tracked it to
Fang Hu Xian Island.
So the one you seek,
he must have a name, right?
Chenxiang.
That's right.
Do you know him?
It's a unique name.
[propellers whirring]
Hey! We never got your name!
It's Wanluo.
I'll be waiting in Yingzhou.
[horn blows]
There's a story there.
Oh yeah, that's for sure.
Look at her gown,
and also her ship,
and her exquisite manners.
But why would she come to us?
Other than being the cheapest,
we don't have much
going for us.
[woman over PA]
On sale for the next 15 days
while supplies last,
the highest quality fuel for
the highest quality flying.
Next order:
three bags of Cosmic Gas.
Collect it over there, sir.
[girl]
Three bags coming right up!
[machines whirring]
[whip cracks]
[dramatic music]
[man] All right. Move along.
[woman over PA]
On sale for the next 15 days
while supplies last,
the highest quality fuel for
the highest quality flying.
[smooth music]
-[grunts]
-Watch it!
-[creatures grunting]
-No need to fight!
Someone stop them!
Knock it off! Both of you!
You hear me?
[upbeat music]
No fighting allowed!
What's going on?
[music continues]
[guard grunts]
[guards grunting]
[metal creaks]
[growls]
Unhand me!
Let go of me, you ugly brute!
Out of my way!
And stay down.
[man] Let's go!
What are looking at? Huh?
[whip cracks]
[tense music]
[music continues]
[yells]
[creature groaning]
[creature grumbling]
[body thuds]
[creatures squealing]
[shushes]
[smooth music]
[metal clicking]
[drums beating]
[gasps]
[creatures whimpering]
[gasps] Boss! Heaven's Army!
[grunts]
Who sounded the alarm?
[drums beating]
[ships whirring]
Let's go!
[all grunting]
[tense music]
Over there!
You there, that way!
[soldiers shouting indistinctly]
[whimpering]
[upbeat music]
Get to the boat.
[all shouting]
[screeching]
[music continues]
Help me, boss!
[soldiers groan]
[soldier] Come back here!
[boss] Start the engine!
Start the engine!
Hey! Wait for me!
-Little brat!
-Halt!
[laughing]
[grunting, yelling]
[ethereal music]
[rings whirring]
Ready for take off!
[yelps]
[laughs]
[woman over PA]
Initialization complete.
The next station is Fang Hu.
Arrival time, 7:45 PM.
[woman continues indistinctly]
[Xiaotian cheering]
[woman over PA]
Have a safe journey.
[light upbeat music]
Ah. Hello. Welcome, sir.
Come. This way.
This way, please.
He's got no money
left to play with.
Beat it!
[upbeat music]
Place your bets!
Here we go!
Erlang! [laughing]
Erlang, you're back!
Hi, Cal.
[Cal]
So, what can I get for you?
Information.
Oh, gee, these old ears
don't hear so well these days.
[yelping]
Even deaf, you hear
better than most.
[whimpers, chuckles nervously]
I guess I do owe you a favor.
[whispers]
What do you want to know?
Looking for someone
named Chenxiang.
Huh? Chenxiang?
I've never heard of him.
I'll be going now!
Hey!
[laughing]
Hello, you three.
[chuckles] What a surprise. Ha!
Let me get a good look at you.
[chuckling]
Ah.
Oh, hey, hey, hey.
Now what was that for?
Blind!
So it's true then.
[giggles] Oh, Mu Erlang.
Bounty hunter now, no?
Listen, sir, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
Brother.
Wait a second, where's
your three-headed sword?
And your silver-bullet
slingshot, huh?
They're all gone?
[laughing]
Ladies and gentlemen, gaze
upon the great and once mighty
Yang Jian.
[woman] Is it really him?
It can't be.
[man]
What happened to him?
Good question.
What did happen to you?
Hey, don't worry,
why don't I tell them?
[hollow thud]
[clearing throat]
Years ago, 12 to be exact,
a goddess by the name of
Yang Chan had the gall
to fall in love
with a mortal human,
breaking Heaven's laws.
So Yang Jian trapped
her under Mount Hua.
And she's his sister by blood.
[patrons whispering]
But Yang Chan would not
be trapped so easily.
She fought back hard, using
Mount Hua's legendary Lotus Lamp
to blind his Third Eye,
impairing his abilities.
Since then, the powerful Yang
Jian hasn't been able to use
his powers.
[man] Serves him right!
Oh, why?
So I ask, what kind of person
would be such a rule follower
they'd seal their own
sister under a mountain?
His actions left the
marriage destroyed,
and a family in ruin!
[monkey laughing]
Yang Jian, do you recall
the day you arrested
the three of us?
All that power.
Today I can finally
pay you back for that.
[tense music]
[loud crashing]
Let's keep it rolling then!
[chuckles nervously, yelps]
Two of the Mo Brothers.
Mo Lihong. Mo Lihai.
[screams]
[crowd muttering]
[laughing]
So it's true. Hey, Yang Jian.
I never would've imagined
that one day I'd be the one
saving you.
[Jian chuckles]
[Lihong] You've kept a pretty
low profile these last 12 years.
Ever since the
Mount Hua incident.
And you really became
a bounty hunter, I see.
One needs to eat.
You're looking for someone.
I heard you mention
a name earlier.
-Oh, the bounty.
-The guy's ours!
We're both after the same man.
I suggest you let this go,
for your sake.
[laughs] Are you really
threatening Yang Jian?
[Lihai laughing]
Yang Jian, you are definitely
not the same guy, huh?
See you around.
[soft guitar music]
[Jian whistling]
[man] Come back here!
[mystical music]
-Move it!
-[panting]
[man] You won't get away!
[panting]
[tense music]
[thugs laughing]
[yawns, yelps]
[water splashing]
Were you naive enough
to think that you can run
from me, child?
-Huh?
-[laughs dismissively]
So then, are these guys
here your new lackeys?
You betrayed and got all
of my previous crew members
killed on that day.
Now give it to me.
Give you what?
The item you snuck
into the hole to steal.
[scoffs] And who told you that?
That would be me. [laughs]
I went and found Boss Hai.
[scoffs]
Who's this guy? Your new pet?
[laughs]
[growls]
[laughing]
That boat had many
valuable items on it,
but none as great
as what you stole.
Hand it over, or else
we might have to take an arm
or a leg.
[thugs laughing menacingly]
[monkey laughing] Hm?
Huh? Oh, not you again.
Why don't you get lost?
[yawns] Excuse me.
[tense harmonica music]
You see, you have helpers
and I do too.
[loud squeaking]
[groaning]
-[upbeat music]
-Take this from me!
-Now fight!
-Huh?
Whoa, hang on.
[thugs grunting]
Wait a second, guys.
Come on, it that
really the best you got?
I don't even know him.
Take them down!
[upbeat music continues]
[barrel shatters]
[groaning]
-[shouts]
-Hey--
Thanks for that.
When this is done,
I'll be sure to pay you back.
Maybe so.
Wasn't that a little much?
[scoffs]
Well, better them than me.
If I were caught,
it'd've been worse than death.
Hmm.
[low tense music]
What is this?
And why did you hand it
off to a complete stranger?
How else would they believe
we were working together?
What if I wanted
it for myself?
You'd be dead.
Pretty big talk.
Do you know who I am?
No matter who you are,
I'll do what it takes.
So the name's Yang Jian.
Chenxiang?
How do you know my name?
Huh. So it's true.
Someone went out of their
way to hire me to find you.
[monkeys yelling]
[water splashing]
Ah!
[water bubbling]
[whimpering]
Yang Jian, what
are you doing here?
I could ask the same question.
Why, you.
I just happened to be here.
All of this, wasn't me.
A knife to the back.
Couldn't have been you.
See. I told you.
That guy who got
away is Chenxiang,
the one you're seeking.
Oh really? Wow, what luck.
A common little thief.
Is he worth that much
to the two of you?
You really have no
idea who he is, do you?
That boy, he's
from your school!
Since you're already
involved in all this,
to know the truth,
just go ask your Master.
Master Yuding.
[ominous music]
[ship rushing]
[groans]
[flute playing]
[harmonica playing]
Sir, that was amazing.
Please tell your master that
Yang Jian is here to see him.
Disciple Yang?
Of course! Follow me!
[soft guqin music]
Yang Jian, you're here.
How is your eye?
Is it still closed off?
[Jian] Yes.
I see.
I can open it
just a little bit,
but when I do,
all I see is white.
Nothing more.
Hard to remedy.
I suppose with a great
deal of strength,
you could force
it open yourself,
except it might make
the wound even worse.
True.
You were so young
when you arrived.
I always thought
of you as a son.
12 years ago, when you went
and sealed off Lotus Peak,
and yet, the unrest carries on.
The spiritual realm
grows weaker by the day.
More demons and
monsters cropping up.
I thought things would change,
but I was wrong in the end.
Sooner or later,
catastrophe will return.
Master, your teaching
has been "Do what one can."
Yes. Do what you can.
It is how to restore order,
and only then the heavens
may begin to heal.
[Jian] I understand.
Master, recently
I happened to run into a boy.
I was told he was your
disciple named Chenxiang.
Chenxiang?!
[scoffs in disgust] That's the
nephew you brought here!
-[gasps]
-[Yuding] It's true.
He's the same boy.
[somber music]
Not that he'd recognize you.
He was only a baby when
you brought him here.
And you haven't seen
each other since.
I named him after
the agarwood tree,
hoping he would grow steady and
serene, not brash or unkind.
That was my intent.
[sighs]
To think that one of my
own students would murder
his teacher.
Go and take a look for yourself.
The Master sealed his corpse
here, until we can bury him.
Why would Chenxiang
kill an elder?
[scoffs] I should have known.
That child has always
been unruly and sinful.
The Master's favor towards
you kept him from casting
the boy out.
Instead, he entrusted the
Second Elder with his training.
Second Elder had a bad temper.
What wounded him?
[man] He didn't act alone.
He allied himself
with Shen Gongbao.
Shen Gongbao? Are you certain?
Yes.
But I'm not sure how
he came in contact with him.
He can multiply himself.
He's quite skilled at it.
And they also stole an
artifact from Second Elder.
-What artifact?
-It's the Lamp of Wishes.
[tense music]
[people chattering]
[upbeat music]
[indistinct chattering]
Well done! [laughs]
Bravo!
Way to go!
What's next?
So far you have the lamp oil,
which means the next thing
you got to get
is it's precious lid.
Oh, nice! Nice!
I ran into someone.
What's his name?
Yang Jian. One of
my Master's students.
What?
He was hired to find me.
Do you think your
Master asked him to?
I don't. He seemed
pretty unaware.
Come.
[huffs]
[Shen] Keep up, kid.
Come! [laughs]
You only know Yang Jian
as an older disciple.
But actually, that guy
is your uncle, you know.
Is that really true?
Your uncle is also the guy
who personally trapped
your mother under Lotus Peak.
Yang Jian is naturally
skilled at magic.
He shattered the Lotus Lamp
into tiny pieces
with his power.
But if you can put
them all back together,
it'll be as good as new.
Once you do that,
you'll be able to use the lamp
to crack open Lotus Peak
and save your mother.
Yang Jian and your Master,
the whole lot of them
are nothing but
a pack of wolves.
Know what they did to me?
At first it seemed not bad,
they gave me
the title of general,
just so they can let me
rot in the Eastern Sea.
They talk big,
but they're all just hypocrites!
[tiger roaring]
So I gritted my teeth
and bore it.
And now after all these years,
I'll finally have my revenge!
Once and for all, mark my words!
[loud burp]
My uncle.
What does he want with me?
He wants the Lotus Lamp
of course.
It'll only activate if someone
of your mother's bloodline
attempts to use it.
Meaning?
[serene music]
And they also stole an
artifact from Second Elder.
It's the Lamp of Wishes.
[Wanluo] He stole something
from me. It was my sister's.
It's called the Lamp of Wishes.
It's Wanluo.
I'll be waiting in Yingzhou.
[music continues]
[indistinct chattering]
[soft music]
[crowd applauding]
[woman] It's started.
[crowd chattering]
[man] Incredible.
It's breathtaking.
Modest beauty, comfort me
How my heart
Longs for thee
Yet, no bridge can
cross the chasmed sea
Here and now
I will give a vow
Made of jade
As a sign
For one so refined
Pure and true
Modest jewel she offers me
So I'll run far from thee
Yet I cannot cross
the chasmed sea
[man] Music without any players.
How did they do it?
[crowd applauding]
[mystical whirring]
[soft music]
Attendant, my tea.
[sighs]
My tea.
[Wanluo gasps]
Sneaking in like that
gave me a fright.
[Jian] Apologies.
I was lost in thought.
So distracted by your song.
Please, forgive me.
Should have said something.
What did you like?
I want to know.
The song was so ethereal.
It's Cao Zhi's
"Goddess of the Luo River."
Pity it's so sorrowful.
The lyrics speak of
pain and anguish.
Quite a sad song.
[music continues]
Nothing to say?
I'm not sure.
When we spoke earlier, it almost
felt like we'd met before.
Except I can't remember where.
Who knows?
Maybe it was in a dream.
Hold on.
Or...
maybe it was more than a dream.
Who knows?
I ran into Chenxiang.
You did?
Where is he?
He got away.
I found out that Chenxiang
and I went to the same school.
Really?
Is that so, Erlang?
It's Yang Jian.
That's my real name.
You're Yang Jian?
That lamp you're looking for.
It belonged to
Chenxiang's Master.
What I want to know is
why you lied to me saying
it was your sister's.
Yang Jian, some things
are best left unknown.
[magic whirring]
[groaning]
Yang Jian, forgive me.
[woman] Jian.
Mother?
Jian.
Mother.
-Mother!
-Jian.
-Only you...
-Don't go!
[Mother]
...can split the mountain.
Mother!
Mother.
[serene music]
[music continues]
[gasps]
[wood cracking]
Woo! Pretty good defensive move.
But a bit over the top.
Hold on.
You want the Lotus Lamp?
Why do you care?
I'm guessing you know,
I'm your uncle.
That's right. I'm the one who
brought you to Jin Xia Cave.
You were just a baby.
You didn't have a name yet.
You were so tiny.
The Second Elder, I knew
he had a bad temper.
I don't know why the Master
put you in his care.
Was it really hard
for you there?
It was swell.
I wasn't taught a thing.
Just beaten to a pulp
and starved.
Called me a worthless bastard.
I'm sorry.
I had no idea.
Even if that's the case,
you shouldn't have killed him.
And you shouldn't have buried
my mother under Lotus Peak!
[magical whooshing]
[grunting]
Let me go!
[Lihong laughing]
Yang Jian, well done!
[ship whirring]
Chenxiang, you're under arrest
for murdering your teacher.
-We have orders to bring you in.
-You--
[Lihong] Turn yourself in!
[explosions]
[tense music]
Yang Jian!
This time we saw you do it!
You let him escape!
I'm afraid we have to
place you under arrest.
Don't bother.
Once I take care of
things with the kid,
I'll turn myself in,
so don't worry, 'kay?
[Lihong grunts]
[lute strums]
[wood shattering]
[grunts]
[lute strumming]
[harmonica playing]
Yang Jian, you brought this.
[bells ringing]
[grunts]
[magical whooshing]
[tense music]
[wind blowing]
Release the fiery wind!
[lute playing]
[grunts]
[loud explosion]
[music continues]
[floor shatters]
[creature growls]
- Heavenly strings!
- [lute strums]
[ferret squeaks]
Brother number four is here.
Wow.
That's not really fair.
Doesn't really fit your style.
If I'm not mistaken,
the last time you fought
the four of us, you
yourself didn't exactly play
by the rules either.
Good point. [yelping]
[Lihai] Yang Jian.
I was vouching for you.
Said you weren't
involved in any of this.
But...
it's clear that I was wrong.
If you admit what you have done,
I promise to support you
at the Celestial Court.
Huh?
What exactly did I do?
Don't play dumb.
It's clear to us both that
you and Chenxiang killed
the Second Elder.
Wait.
[loud dong]
-[loud clanging]
-Ow!
[muttering]
Hey, new guy! Do you really
have to make that much noise?
Have you never been
in jail before?
Huh? Yang Jian?
Yo, yo, yo!
Long time, no see, man.
[bright music]
And you are?
[scoffs] Wha?
Why, I'm the--the--the--
the--the--
big guard,
the elixir, the tall guy.
The super tall guy,
and then bang!
[yelling] And then we went--
[imitating ships]
And then we went--
[sighs, groans]
20,000.
Oh.
[creatures roaring]
Hey, you might be Yang Jian,
but in my eyes,
you're nothing at all.
You show me respect or
I'll beat it into you.
Thank you, sir. Take it easy.
-That's right.
-[guard] You better cut
the noise! Right now!
[prisoner yowls]
Hey, Yang Jian, even
though you're the reason
I'm in this prison
to begin with,
I don't hold a grudge
about those kind of things.
What's done is done.
Come on!
[yelping]
If you, you don't watch
out for the guards in here,
they'll beat you
to a pulp, okay?
[sighs] Are you even listening?
Hey!
[creature snoring]
[thunder rumbling]
[growling]
[yelping]
[gong ringing]
[cannon banging]
[loud explosion]
[creature roaring]
[lightning zapping]
[loud explosion]
Ooh! [laughs]
Sounds like a fight.
Oh yeah!
This ought to be good.
Maybe it's a breakout, right?
Yang Jian.
Hey.
Are you trying to tell me
they're here for you?
-Huh?
-[gasps]
All of you get back!
You better watch it!
You hear me?
Hey.
[guard grunts]
Well, you coming?
Okay.
[upbeat music]
[guard]
Hey! Back in your cells!
[prisoners grunting]
So the elixir,
what was it really?
Does it really matter?
Let's just focus on
getting out of here.
[wall shattering]
[both shout]
Xiaotian, where is he?
Over there!
[funky music]
Uh, we better get moving.
[music continues]
[boy yelling]
Help me out! Hey!
Help me!
[music continues]
-[Xiaotian cheers]
-[man] Erlang!
Yang Jian!
[shouting]
[laughing]
It's either one
thing or another.
First we're aimless
bounty hunters,
and then fugitives in Penglai.
[shouting]
Comrades, you've been loyal.
And you've suffered for it.
[laughs]
Wouldn't have
it any other way!
Our choice.
[Xiaotian cheering]
[fire rumbling]
Xiaotian.
[sharp whirring]
[engine booms]
[boy yelling]
Erlang, where
are we going now?
The lamp's last piece
is in that pagoda.
The light they're using,
it comes from the lid
of the lamp.
Yeah, I have no idea
how they got it though.
Nowadays they use it
to guide flying ships.
[laughs]
Must you drink so much?
[Shen laughs]
Whether heaven or hearse,
in a flash, it all goes,
so drink your fill.
That's all one needs to know.
[lighthouse creaking]
[tense music]
That you?
If it isn't Mo Liqing!
Oh-ho! Been a real long
time, my old friend!
[laughs]
I've been waiting.
At long last.
And you must be Chenxiang,
murderer and fugitive.
Oh, that's enough of that.
[shouts]
You should already know,
the Phoenixes you trapped,
they'll break free one day.
My brothers and I have no
desire to see that day arrive.
It shall summon chaos.
But it's inevitable.
You think you can suppress
the Phoenixes forever?
Mount Hua still stands
despite its appearance
and what you may believe.
We risked everything to
restrain those birds' powers.
If I can hold it another day,
that's one more day it stands.
[Shen laughs]
Mo Liqing, friend,
this go 'round,
you're my enemy,
and no longer a friend.
[driving music]
[swords clang]
[burps]
[Shen grunts]
[tiger roars]
[groans]
[driving music]
[wood shattering]
[shouting]
[deep rumbling]
[dramatic music]
[sword thunders]
Oh. Guess we're not
holding back then.
[dramatic music]
[tiger roaring]
[music continues]
[tigers roaring]
[swords clanging]
Your Duplication trick?
[Liqing grunting]
[music continues]
[loud belch]
[both thudding]
[Chenxiang yells]
You can duplicate too?
[grunting]
[sword thuds]
To have mastered duplication...
I see that Shen Gongbao has
taught you his dark magic.
To win, I'll do anything.
[tense music]
[tiger growls]
[Shen gasps]
Chenxiang! Run now!
[swords thudding]
[loud crashing]
[both shouting]
Chenxiang!
[dramatic music]
[loud explosion]
[Chenxiang panting]
[somber music]
[both groaning]
[swords swooshing]
[tiger growls]
[swords thundering]
[Shen] Get going!
[dramatic music]
[swords clattering]
Go now!
[Shen groaning]
[Shen coughing]
Hello.
Looks like we meet again.
Need to make an
entrance, don't you? Ha!
[swords whooshing]
[sword booms]
[melancholy music]
[tiger groans]
[tiger roars]
[magical whirring]
[gasps]
[thudding]
Shen Gongbao.
[melancholic music]
Yang Jian.
It's good to see you.
I heard you fell on hard times.
Your Third Eye went blind.
I feel for that boy who split
Mount Tao all those years ago.
I was always fond of
that young Yang Jian.
Shen Gongbao,
where's Chenxiang?
He ran off somewhere.
That Chenxiang is one
heartless, ruthless kid.
I was the same way
when I was that age.
[coughs]
I guess that means
he's my successor.
Do you have any
idea where he'd go?
That little
secret place of his.
Mount Li.
Cross-Moon Pool.
[coughing]
[tiger growling]
Your wounds.
Who did this?
Life is too short.
Full of sorrow, til we're gone.
Yet though I leave...
time,
it will flow on.
[Xiaotian laughs]
Can we trust this guy?
[laughs] All right, guys!
Everything's been taken care of!
Very safe.
[yelping] Hey, hold on.
There isn't room for you.
It only seats one.
[Xiaotian groans]
[bright music]
Huh?
[grunting]
[groans] Cheapskate!
What? You! You little!
[music continues]
[ramp rumbling]
[Xiaotian] I want to go too!
No! You won't fit!
Hang on a sec!
I forgot to tell you!
When going through the
hole you can get nauseous!
Huh? What'd you say?
Hang on!
[whooshing]
[Jian yelling]
[jazzy music]
[ice cracks]
[ship crashes]
[groaning]
[overlapping voices
speaking indistinctly]
[Jian vomits]
This is Chang'an?
[wind whistling]
[crows cawing]
The Mortal Realm is at war.
[soft music]
You made it.
A new lamp,
lamp oil,
the old lamp lid.
It's now complete.
[lamp whirring]
[mystical music]
What is this?
Yang Jian, I know you're here.
Don't hide.
Why don't you tell
Chenxiang the true purpose
of the Lotus Lamp?
You followed me?
Under Mount Hua's Lotus Peak
sits a nest of Phoenixes.
They are the spirits of fire.
Powerful enough to
destroy the world.
If set free,
the cosmos would splinter.
The goddess, Nwa gifted
the lamp to your mother
so she would remain at the peak
to keep watch over them.
But 12 years ago,
the Phoenixes grew restless.
The lamp could not
contain them.
I was sent to help her
by my master.
But the Phoenixes'
force was too great.
The lamp shattered.
[loud thundering]
[shrieking]
At the last minute, your
mother jumped into the nest
in order to try and
hold them down herself.
Brother, look after my son.
Sister!
You must seal Lotus Peak.
[magical thundering]
[dramatic music]
[Jian yells]
[deep rumbling]
[Jian]
I drove my ax into the rock.
[yells]
[ax booms]
Thus sealing the Phoenixes in.
And your Third Eye
hasn't opened since.
So she wasn't buried
for marrying a mortal?
She sacrificed herself?
Chenxiang,
your grandmother married
a mortal as well,
and had me and your mom.
Because I had been wounded,
I couldn't care for you.
That's why I took
you to Jin Xia Cave.
You couldn't even
come to see me?
You're my uncle!
[melancholic music]
My Master forbade me
before you were trained.
Is he telling the truth?
Well, grandmother?
Grandmother?
It's true.
All of it.
Yang Jian, your mother,
Yaoji was my best friend.
I have another name.
Goddess of Mount Wu.
There's more to the story
than what's been told.
Follow me.
[wind whistling]
Mount Hua
and Lotus Peak.
See those lights?
The Phoenixes are agitated.
And their power is waking.
My mother is trapped
under that mountain then?
This was once
Mount Li's beacon tower.
King You would light it
for his concubine, Bao Si,
for her amusement.
The issue was the false
alarms he created.
And in the end,
his kingdom perished.
Yet it's always
the woman's fault.
Yang Jian,
do you know why you used
the lamp to seal the Phoenixes?
To save Jin Xia Cave.
[intriguing music]
Your master used
the Phoenixes' power
to keep the cave standing.
When the Phoenix's break free,
the cave will collapse.
Keeping them sealed is what
keeps Jin Xia standing.
That is the true reason
why your master sent you
to seal them away.
I don't understand.
He told me that this
would save lives.
Prevent destruction.
He never said anything
about the cave.
His reasons are selfish.
Heaven and Earth are ruled by
cycles, and so the Phoenixes
will surely rise again.
[low thundering]
Yang Jian, do you
remember when it was
that you split the mountain?
It was back during..
[gasps]
the last Great Catastrophe.
And so the truth
is he manipulated for
his own selfishness.
You were his pawn.
Let us split the mountain
and rescue your mother.
Hm.
Wanluo, if this is true,
I want to help.
But before I do,
would you accompany me
to confront my Master?
Chenxiang, you'll come too.
I'm not going back with you.
You and the Elders
are all the same.
Just leave!
I'll do it.
Chenxiang!
[magic whirring]
Knowing everything, you still
want to run to your Master.
[mirror clangs]
[Jian panting]
[tense music]
[grunts]
[water splashing]
[vase shatters]
[dramatic music]
[Wanluo gasps]
[Jian grunts]
Sorry, Goddess Wu.
I fear if Chenxiang stays here,
he'll share the same
fate as Shen Gongbao.
Huh?
[somber music]
What are you saying?
When we last saw each other,
you cast a spell on me.
While I was enchanted,
I had a dream.
Jian, split the mountain.
That wasn't my mother.
It was you, Goddess of Mount Wu.
Using dreams to confuse people
is your signature skill.
The Second Elder wasn't
killed by Chenxiang,
nor Shen Gongbao.
The lacerations I saw
resembled a silken web.
When I found Shen Gongbao,
he was still alive.
He had been injured
by a powerful weapon.
What really killed him
were the wounds
from a silken web.
And just now you tried to
attack me with a silken web.
That's when I was reminded
that your special magic weapon
is a web.
The Second Elder
and Shen Gongbao
were both murdered by you.
[panting] You--
It's true.
All of it.
Why did you have to do it?
If I hadn't, you never
would've left Jin Xia Cave.
Shen Gongbao's death
was unfortunate.
We were working together,
but when I found him like that,
I couldn't let him suffer,
so I put him out of his misery.
I still don't understand why.
Chenxiang, everything I did
was to split the mountain
and save your mother.
Unlike Yang Jian.
Whatever your reasons,
you can't just kill others.
[lamp whirring]
Enough!
[dramatic music]
[chains thumping]
[harmonica playing]
[gasping]
[gasps] Where's my--?
Give it back!
Oh. I removed it.
It was burning your wrist.
I've never been
able to take it off.
It's always been there.
How'd you do it?
I don't know.
Maybe it's because
I'm your uncle.
[gentle music]
She gave this to me
before she made the leap.
She wove it from her own hair.
Told me to give it to her son.
The bracelet is a wick.
To light the Lotus Lamp.
[music continues]
I just miss her so much.
[distant ominous screeching]
I'll go to Mount Hua with you.
[gentle adventurous music]
Then we can get to
the bottom of this.
[upbeat mystical music]
[singing in Mandarin]
Nine-Turns Kungfu?
[grunting]
[shouts]
[water splashing]
[upbeat mystical music]
[singing in Mandarin]
[shouts]
[yells]
[soft music]
[upbeat mystical music]
[soldiers grunting]
[wind whistling]
You're home.
I was born here.
[soft music]
[chimes ringing]
[baby laughing]
[ethereal music]
Mother.
[melancholic music]
Let's go.
[music continues]
[Jian coughing]
[low rumbling]
[winds whistling]
[low tense music]
This carving is
the Order of the Gods.
How did I not notice before?
All this while, the Order
was carved on Mount Hua.
[deep rumbling]
[rumbling]
[screeching]
And there's the ax I used.
So it's sealing the
peak you split open?
[Jian] Not completely.
Their energy is spilling out.
You can see it right there.
[tense music]
Yang Jian, you have to go.
[struggling]
Celestial rope?
-Chenxiang, run!
-Huh?
[shattering]
[screaming]
Uncle!
[deep rumbling]
[intense music]
[stones shattering]
[both grunting]
[lute playing]
Looks like we finally
caught you, traitor.
This Thai Chi scroll is
such a marvelous treasure, no?
With one hand,
your fears, it will quell.
And with the other, it
manifests your deepest desires
as well.
The awesome power
of this scroll
should be enough to
keep Yang Jian trapped.
[gasps]
[tense music]
[Jian yelling]
[dramatic music]
[screaming]
[Mother] Jian.
Jian.
[rumbling]
Mother.
Mother!
[door slams]
[screaming]
[Mother]
Jian, split the mountain.
[Jian yells]
[ax smashes]
[screeching]
[shouting]
[Mother] Jian.
Mother?
[ethereal music]
[Mother] Jian.
[Jian] Mother.
[Mother]
Mount Hua is open.
It's time for me to go.
But why?
[Mother]
Because it is fated.
The women in our family
are destined to hold down
the mountain.
To secure peace in the world.
[sobs]
Mother.
[Mother] Jian,
you needn't cry.
Look.
Do you see these sparks?
They're all me.
All things live forever.
And so I will live on
in all things.
-[Jian sobs] No.
-[Mother] If you miss me,
look to the lamps that burn
in every window.
-Mother. [sniffles]
-And you'll see me there.
Mother!
[fire roaring]
[dramatic music]
I already split Mount Tao!
Mother!
Where are you?
[shouts, grunts]
[Master]
You must secure Mount Hua.
I must secure Mount Hua.
Restore the peace.
To restore the peace.
Secure Mount Hua.
-Brother, look after my son.
-No!
[Jian groaning]
[screams]
[ax thundering]
[Jian yelling]
[cranes calling]
[Master] How is your eye?
Is it still closed off?
[gasps]
Yes.
[Master] 12 years ago when you
went and sealed off Lotus Peak,
and yet the unrest carries on.
I thought things would change,
but I was wrong in the end.
Sooner or later,
catastrophe will return.
[uneasy music]
Master?
[voice slowing, distorting]
It is how to restore order.
And only then, the heavens
will begin to heal.
[deep rumbling]
[music continues]
[groaning]
Master.
This is the Thai Chi scroll.
You're the one
holding me in here?
[sighs] You were always
my greatest student.
I am impressed that you're
able to combat the effects
of the scroll's magic.
Wait a minute,
I remember the story.
It was Yin Hong's master
who turned his apprentice
to ashes.
Master.
What crime did I commit?
Yang Jian,
I can not allow Chenxiang
to split Mount Hua.
It's all...
to protect Jin Xia Cave.
So you know now.
We cannot allow
the cave to fall.
Everything I've done has been
to preserve Jin Xia Cave.
Why can't you understand that?
So then,
my sister is still
locked under Mount Hua.
Because it's her fate!
[melancholic music]
Yang Jian,
you do not know
the Yang family curse.
It lies between
mothers and sons.
You are linked by fate to
the cycle of catastrophe.
The mothers must hold
down the mountains
for the sake of
preserving peace,
and the sons will always
try to save their mothers
by splitting the mountains.
But what you don't know
is if the mountain is split
and the Phoenixes are freed,
the cave will collapse.
Chaos and catastrophe will
return just as it did before.
And only after the dust settles
will peace return
to heaven once more.
[gasping]
[Master] My boy,
Jian,
the last to split
Mount Hua was you.
This round,
it's Chenxiang's turn.
[Jian laughing]
Master.
You took me in as an orphan.
Raised me as one of
your holy disciples.
Taught me all sorts
of different magic.
And all for the purpose of using
so that I could split
Mount Tao one day.
When you looked after
Chenxiang, you hid his powers,
his origins and
everything from him.
But this time it was to
keep him from splitting
the mountain.
Correct.
Yang Jian,
I am trying to preserve peace
just as your mother did
before me.
As long as the Phoenixes
remain under the mountain,
the cave will also remain.
Your precious cave is
destined to collapse.
The longer they're suppressed,
the more powerful they'll grow.
When they're free,
they'll destroy the world.
And protecting Jin Xia Cave,
it's not for the greater good,
it's for selfish reasons!
That cave is my life!
The life of all disciples
who've passed through it.
It's glory belongs to all.
Harm to it is harm to all.
Even if I'm wrong,
then I'll be wrong to the end.
[Jian laughs]
Master,
the disciples you trained
were only a means to an end.
Yang Jian,
I never wanted to see you go.
But for the sake of
everything that is dear,
you shall be turned to dust.
[dramatic music]
[Chan groaning]
[Chenxiang grunting]
[Chenxiang yells]
[glass shatters]
[yelling]
[grunting]
[low ominous music]
The celestial
rope and the scroll,
both of these weapons belong
to the Masters who came before.
We all want the same goal,
to keep chaos from
returning to the world.
[lute strums]
[whooshing]
[lute strumming]
Chenxiang!
Chenxiang, protect
yourself with the lamp!
[blade clashes]
[drums beating]
Huh? It can't be!
[drums continue]
[low rumbling]
[grunts]
[lute playing]
[blades clashing]
Your Nine-Turns form
is getting better.
[lute strumming]
[blades clanging]
[Phoenix screeching]
The Phoenix's
power is so great
it's tearing through
the Thai Chi scroll.
[contemplative music]
[music continues]
[harmonica playing]
[grunts]
[dramatic music]
[Phoenix screeching]
No, uncle!
[whooshing]
[light shimmering]
[Jian yelling]
He's using the Phoenixes
to open his Third Eye!
[driving music]
[screaming]
I won't let us pay
for your mistakes.
[epic music]
Heaven and Earth,
I rise to thee!
[deep thundering]
Fine. We will stop him.
[music continues]
[lute strumming]
[bells ringing]
[whooshing]
[sword rumbling]
[driving music]
[loud crashing]
[groaning]
[music continues]
[rumbling]
[epic music]
[rocks crumbling]
[screeching]
Master, what my
mother was protecting
was not your Jin Xia Cave.
She fought to protect
the entire world!
[Phoenixes screeching]
[choir vocalizing]
[gentle music]
[vocalizing continues]
[thunder rumbling]
[panting]
[deep whooshing]
[ax crashes]
[groaning]
[scroll thundering]
Uncle!
[distant thundering]
[Phoenix screeching]
[Chan] Lotus Peak can't hold.
If this continues,
everything will fall apart.
Chenxiang, your mother and
I wanted to preserve peace.
Now it's your turn.
You must split the mountain.
[tense music]
[magic thundering]
[Chenxiang grunts]
[epic music]
[ax thundering]
[Chenxiang yelling]
[yelling]
[ax thundering]
[mountain cracking]
[both yelling]
[rocks crumbling]
[Chenxiang grunting] Mother!
Mother!
[rocks rumbling]
[Chan] Chenxiang.
[ethereal music]
[chimes ringing]
Mother.
My sweet child.
Look how big you are.
Mother!
[Chenxiang thuds]
[melancholic music]
What's going on?
Chenxiang.
[music continues]
[crying]
Brother, I still need
you to look after him.
[music continues]
No, please, don't go.
Along with the Phoenixes,
I'll protect the world
and you.
Mother.
Come back!
Mother!
Don't leave!
Mother.
Please.
Don't leave me.
Mother.
Mother!
[Chenxiang shouts]
[crying]
Why?
Why does it have to be this way?
[melancholic music]
Your mother had already
merged with the Phoenixes.
With the mountain split,
they're free now.
Where they go, so does she.
But as long as you're here,
and as long as
Earth still exists,
she'll return one day.
[soft music]
[Chenxiang crying]
[ethereal music]
[singing in Mandarin]
[singing continues]
And so, the Monkey King emerged
from the water bead cave.
Looked up, and who did he see?
A most handsome
and striking hero.
None other than the
Jade Emperor's nephew, Erlang.
The same young man
who split Mount Tao
and quelled the Phoenix power.
-[man clears throat]
-Huh?
-[gasping]
-[child] Huh?
Yang Jian.
[audience chattering]
Wow!
Erlang was really amazing!
Hey.
You couldn't beat that guy?
[groans] That's just a story.
Listen, I'll tell you
what really happened.
So you see...
[sighs]
[magic whirring]
[panting, whimpering]
[mystical music]
[man]
Banished to Changsha,
left to roam.
I look westward
and long for home.
From the Yellow Crane Tower
I hear a sad flute.
Plum blossoms rain
down on Jiang Chen
in the gloom.
[man laughing]
[gong rings]
[gentle flute music]
[singing in Mandarin]
[upbeat music]
[singing continues]